[singing voice] Aniplex.
It's a little late to check
but how are you?
Huh?
Uh...
[whooshing]
[Shirou] I'm fine.
Honestly, better than I would
have thought.
I think I could pull off 10
or even 20 projections.
[Rin] I'm just glad
it actually worked.
Okay, then.
Now's our chance.
Let's go over the plan.
Shirou and I will sneak into
Ryuudou Temple
from the rear
and then give the signal.
Then, Saber,
that's when you storm
the temple through
the front entrance
and keep Goldie busy
for a while.
[Shirou]
While you're doing that,
we find Shinji and the Grail
and do what we have to
to shut it down.
After that,
the only thing left is for you
to destroy the Grail itself.
There's one more thing.
‐ [Saber] Shirou.
‐ [gasps]
I must tell you something.
What is it?
The fact is,
I can only use my holy sword
one more time.
[gasps]
She's run out of mana.
The moment she uses her sword,
she ceases to exist
in this world.
What?
No!
Why is that?
Think about it.
I'm supplying all the mana
for both of you.
[gasps]
But what about Saber?
How is she supposed
to keep Gilgamesh busy
without using her sword?
Shirou.
This was my own decision.
What else can we do?
This is the only way we can win.
Saber is pacted as my servant.
You think I want her
to be sacrificed?
[groans]
[gasps]
[grunts]
[Aimer's "Brave Shine"]
♪♪ ♪♪
[Aimer singing in Japanese]
♪♪ Brave shine ♪♪
[singing in Japanese]
♪♪ Stay the night ♪♪
♪♪ You save my life ♪♪
[singing in Japanese]
♪♪ ♪♪
♪♪ Your brave shine ♪♪
[Shirou] What the hell is that?
[Rin] The mana's assuming
physical form.
It feels like...
Ten years ago!
Which proves what
we're looking at
is the Holy Grail.
[Rin] The vessel must
have been too small for it.
What's inside it is starting
to crack the vessel open
and leak out.
[Shirou] What do you mean
by that?
[Rin] I mean Shinji is cracking.
He must be in there somewhere,
linked to all this as its core.
[gasps]
[Shirou] Could that be him?
Up at the top,
is that a person?
[Rin] Yeah, it looks like
the Holy Grail is using
a human body this time.
Listen, if we do nothing,
the vessel will be destroyed.
It's not compatible.
[gasps]
[Rin] And then there won't be
a Holy Grail anymore.
Just that muck oozing out
of the weird hole in space
opened up by the Grail.
So then we've gotta pull
Shinji out of there fast.
Wait!
You think you can just walk up
to it?
That slime is curses
that have taken physical form.
We won't know until we try,
will we?
We have to hurry.
By now Saber's already fighting
at the front gate.
[Shirou] We don't have time
for indecision.
[Gilgamesh] Well,
what a surprise.
To think I should gaze upon
your misshapen faces again.
Mongrels.
‐ [gasps]
‐ Gilgamesh?
If he's here,
then who's Saber fighting?
[gasps]
I've been waiting.
I'm glad you got here in time,
Saber.
Assassin?
No.
[Saber] With Caster gone,
it should be impossible
for you to still be here!
I am a unique case,
you see.
I am a false servant summoned
with this location functioning
as my anchor.
[Assassin] A guard dog permitted
to appear only at this gate
and no other place.
But of course,
with that vixen Caster gone,
I shall not live through
the night.
Only by merest chance have
I managed to last this long.
[Saber snarls]
[Gilgamesh] Along with Saber,
you seem to have been forsaken
by fate.
I would venture to say that you
were not aware
that a servant who has yet
to vanish is still
at the main gate.
‐ Assassin!
‐ No!
How can he still be here?
Now then,
simply killing you
would be very dull,
so I've decided
to grant you both
a brief reprieve.
What the hell
are you talking about?
Shinji might feel lonely
if I were the only one
with him at the end.
Bearing witness to how
this great work concludes
will lend meaning
to your worthless lives.
Is it true?
Are you actually planning
to commit genocide
on the entire human race?
[exhales]
[gasps]
You must truly wish
to embrace death
that you would dare
to question me.
This world's major fault
is that it is so tolerant
of humans.
And therein lies your answer,
little girl.
This era in which
the common rabble
have bred to excess
is far crueler than necessary.
You bastard!
[Gilgamesh] In the past,
in my world,
there were none
who were extraneous.
Even a slave knew
he had purpose.
Everyone's life
had significance.
But what of the world
in this era?
There are more people
than there is significance.
Some of you know the truth
and think the same.
Who was it who observed?
It seems that the population
has grown too great.
[both gasping]
It is my personal intention
to cull the human herd
of worthless mongrels.
[Gilgamesh] The culling
ten years ago
took fewer than 500,
but this time,
disaster will bathe
the entire world.
One can only guess
how many will remain
once their numbers
have been thinned out.
Is that not exciting?
Only a sick perv like you
would get his kicks
from something like that!
Why did I expect
a straight answer from you?
I'm shutting down
your Holy Grail right now.
No, wait!
I'll just go up
and pull Shinji out.
He's a jerk,
but he's still Sakura's brother.
And besides,
aren't you the one who wanted
to save everyone in the world
if you could?
[chomps]
[Gilgamesh laughs]
You intend to stroll
through those curses?
You really think a mere human
like you could walk
through that?
Well, I might surprise you.
[Rin] I can handle curses
like this.
You just watch me.
You're willing
to risk your life?
How utterly charming.
‐ [Gilgamesh] However‐‐
‐ [gasps]
I did not give you authorization
to walk away from me.
[booming]
[grunts]
Tohsaka, go and get Shinji.
I'm on it!
[sizzling]
[whimpers]
You keep your hands off her!
I'm the one you're gonna fight!
This was to have been a bit
of sport before welcoming Saber.
But it's proving
to be most tedious.
You horrible,
filthy sham.
Now I shall teach you the power
of the genuine article!
[blows landing]
[both grunting]
Stand aside, Assassin!
There's no reason for you
to defend this gate!
[scoffs]
No reason?
My fighting has never held
any sort of reason.
Really, I've no pride
as a heroic spirit.
Nor have I a wish
to be granted.
The fact of the matter is,
I am not even Kojirou Sasaki.
[gasps]
You needn't be surprised.
It's likely
that Kojirou Sasaki existed
at one point.
[Assassin] And it's likely there
was a warrior
with a long sword called
Laundry Pole as well.
However, these two were not
the same individual.
Kojirou Sasaki‐‐
who people said acted
as a foil
to some noble swordsman‐‐
was merely a fiction found
in folktales.
A fictional hero?
[Assassin] Yes.
Kojirou Sasaki is only a mantle.
As for myself,
I was merely the swordsman
best suited to wear it.
I do not even have a name.
However, I was able to perform
the techniques
the records attribute
to Kojirou Sasaki.
It's the only reason that
a ghost like me was summoned.
So you see,
there was never any meaning
to this.
I am an empty,
hollow shell.
Nothing has meaning for me.
‐ However‐‐
‐ [gasps]
[Assassin] If there
were something
that could possibly give meaning
to my existence...
It would be this moment.
That is, if a man who died
in obscurity had such a thing
as a wish.
Assassin.
[grunts]
[scoffs]
[groaning]
Gimme a break!
[Rin] Ugh,
this is the grossest thing
I've ever done!
[groans]
[booming]
[panting, shouts]
[groaning]
Crap.
[inhales sharply]
Learn your place, mongrel!
I'd prefer you didn't spoil
the festivities.
It's finally happening.
[breathing heavily]
[gasps]
[gasping]
Look up there.
Would you like
to know what that is?
[Gilgamesh] The Holy Grail
is drawing in wishes.
The true nature of you mongrels.
The malevolence of all mankind.
[gasps]
[tense music]
♪♪ ♪♪
[Gilgamesh] It will grant any
and all wishes,
transcending the limitations
of life,
bringing forth
an amazing transformation.
Why do wishes fail
to be granted?
Because humans
are inherently limited.
Fairness, peace, happiness
can never be obtained
because you sad prisoners
of flesh
can never be satisfied.
That is why humans constructed
the Holy Grail
in the first place.
Not to release your people
from all suffering,
but rather to subjugate
and conquer them.
[laughing]
This is the end result
of that ideal!
No quality so capable
of bringing change
is more powerful
than human malevolence!
That is its fuel,
and its tool
is self annihilation.
That is the true nature
of humanity.
So this wish granter fits
this age perfectly.
Vastly different in scope
than ten years ago.
The curses will stream forth
without end.
Now, boy, what will you do?
[booming]
[grunts]
[groans]
[Gilgamesh] Good!
You may provide me
with sport after all.
[scoffs]
[Rin breathing heavily]
[grunts]
Shinji.
[squelching]
Come on.
We've gotta get you outta here
right now.
[breathing heavily]
What the hell?
You don't even wanna let go
of a half‐baked core
like this one?
[grunts]
[breathing heavily]
Huh?
Well, apparently
it got pissed off
when I yanked its heart out.
Ready or not,
we gotta go.
[grunting]
[booming]
Even kings have
their constraints.
It would smack of defeat to take
a mongrel like you seriously.
So be it.
You may rejoice.
I am going to go easy on you.
Trace...
On!
[breathing heavily]
Trace on!
What now?
Your quality is slipping
a little.
‐ [winces]
‐ [Gilgamesh] Is your tongue
the only real thing about you,
faker?
[winces]
It's up to you to defeat him.
Shut up, Archer.
How the hell am I supposed
to do that?
[Shirou] My sword skills
aren't enough
to get past his Noble Phantasm.
There's no choice.
Only one thing to do.
I have to cancel out
his Noble Phantasms
by smashing them
with exact duplicates.
All right.
Trace...
I'll copy them all.
Every last one!
On!
[electric sparking]
Possession experience
assimilation complete!
Processing complete!
Projections, stand by!
[Gilgamesh] Oh, you're producing
more than one this time.
Ah, yes.
You duplicated every one
of my Noble Phantasms
you could see.
Let us score your efforts.
But no matter how good
they may be,
I shall not allow a single one
to remain.
[Shirou] Release freeze!
All projections,
successive fire!
[booming]
For glasswork,
they are remarkably durable.
However, you'll have to copy
a lot faster than that.
Trace on!
This stalemate
is an utterly foolish notion.
[Gilgamesh] If you know
you cannot defeat me,
then destroying the Holy Grail
is the correct decision.
But if that's your thinking,
stop wasting your time
and go kill Shinji instead.
If stopping the Grail
is your goal,
you can achieve that
most directly
by eliminating him,
and yet you still try
to save him.
What hypocrisy.
A quality that all
you mongrels share.
[grunting]
[booming]
[Shirou gasps]
What?
[booming]
Its lost its core
and wants me for a replacement.
Tohsaka!
[sizzling]
[groans]
[gasps]
[static buzzing]
What the hell is that?
[Shirou] I can't read it.
I can't get any information
on that weapon's construction
at all.
[shuddering]
Exterminate it.
Ea!
[booms]
[Shirou shouts]
I really thought I'd been taking
it easy on you.
But apparently sparing Archer
would have afforded me
more amusement...
[Gilgamesh] Boy.
[Saber] What
was that shock wave?
[both grunting]
[grunting]
[grunts]
I remember this.
Assassin, how dare you?
[Saber] He will use it
if I disengage‐‐
that long blade technique.
Is it wise pulling back
your resistance?
From this position,
I could easily send you
flying backwards.
Is that why you chose
to enter my striking range?
[Assassin] Yes,
I want to force an end.
With blades,
don't let your mind wander
to what comes later.
[Saber] If I step out
of striking range...
I will fall right into his trap.
Why do you hesitate?
Just as I am the guard
at this gate,
there's a thing that you guard,
too,
which leaves us no room
for any doubts.
[Assassin] And besides,
Saber,
you are not the only one here
running out of time.
[grunts]
[Saber] I do you a discourtesy.
As you say,
we are both out of time.
[booming]
[grunts]
[gasps]
[chuckles]
Ultimate Swallow Reversal.
[squelching]
[groans]
[grunting]
Go now.
I had looked on her as just
a lovely little bird...
[Assassin] When in fact she
was really a lion.
And here I considered myself
a fair judge of women.
Now I suppose my training
in that form is equally lacking.
[tense music]
♪♪ ♪♪
[groans]
[gasping]
[Kalafina's "Ring Your Bell"]
♪♪ ♪♪
[Kalafina singing in Japanese]
♪♪ Ring your bell ♪♪